## New Zealand Mussel Modeling:

### Methods
A biophysical model of mussel body temperature mimics the thermal properties of a mussel bed exposed to tidal inundation and wave run-up (described in detail in Wethey et al. 2011) was used to reconstruct historical mussel temperatures and project future mussel temperatures.  Tides with wave run-up inundate the mussel bed at regular intervals at which point the mussel temperatures are equivalent to sea surface temperature. The duration of tidal inundation is determined by shore level. Mussel body temperatures were modeled at 10 cm intervals from 50 cm above MLLW to 250 cm above MLLW.  The model has mussel layers with the heat transfer characteristics of mussels, which have black shells and internal tissue composed mostly of water. The total mussel bed depth simulated was 5 cm.  Mussel temperatures and survival were calculated for 1 cm depth which approximates the core temperature of a mussel of 2 cm length, which was the average size for mussels at the two field sites.  

The mussel body temperature model was forced with gridded meteorological reanalysis data, which were linearly interpolated to the locations of individual sites using the 4 closest grid points, for the years 1997-2007 (Mislan and Wethey 2011). Meteorological variables were from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Climate Forecasting System Reanalysis (Reference!!). Tidal inundation was predicted using the global model of the Oregon State University Tidal Prediction Software \citep{Egbert:2002ef}. Sea surface temperatures were obtained from the Naval Research Laboratory Modular Ocean Data Assimilation \citep{Barron:2006sa}.

Wave run-up was calculated from NOAA Wavewatch III CFSRR high resolution (1/6$^\circ$) hindcasts \citep{Chawla:2013tg}, using equations from the United States Army Corps of Engineers Coastal Engineering Manual \citep{USarmy:2002}. To calculate predicted survival from the mussel body temperature hindcasts, we used a 
